---
layout: default
---
## Accessibility Statement 

In creating this digital portfolio, I attempted to place the user at the center of all my design decisions. I have focused on creating a simple, straight-forward and intuitive experience that avoids unnecessary design elements or confusing navigation. Using large type-face, boldly contrasting color values (mostly black on white), and a simple structure, this minimalist website is intended to effectively facilitate the distribution of my portfolio materials. I have included alt-text for the singular photographic image to facilitate the use of screen readers and all linked documents are available in PDF format to allow for maximum interoperability. I also tested the accessibility of my site using the [WAVE web accessibility evaluation tool](http://wave.webaim.org/). While I have attempted to closely adhere to the Accessibility Principles outlined by the [Web Accessibility Initiative](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/), I recognize that the use of linked PDF files rather than plain text documents may pose a challenge for screen readers and other assistive tools. As I develop my personal website for more general use and widespread publication, I will be sure to monitor the site for additional accessibility issues. The most substantive design decisions concerned which documents should be hosted as simple html webpages and which should link to a hosted PDF file. In the end, I decided that for any document longer than a single page, I would link out to a hosted PDF file. While this does require the user to occasionally navigate with the browser’s “back” button, I believe the added ability to download individual files and the increased readability warranted this decision. 

In addition to these design choices, I also intentionally avoided using proprietary and commercially focused web-development and hosting tools like Squarespace or Wix. Rather, by hosting my material in a github repository and building my site with Jekyll, an opensource static site generator, I was able maintain a level of control and autonomy that I believe is an important part of providing continued accessibility to online content. While other hosting and web-design tools may offer simpler backend usability and more pre-set design options, github and Jekyll are both part of an opensource community that offers extensive online documentation and support. Moreover, they are both tools that are committed to the ethical sharing of information and collaboration. Much of my academic and organizing work in this program has focused on the often overlooked and ignored consequences of information technologies, so I wanted to make sure that the tools I used to create my portfolio were in line with my values.

Finally, I have also included a printer-friendly PDF version of my portfolio. This version does not substantially differ from the web-based version other than in ease of navigation and the absence of the “additional supporting materials,” which rely on links to external websites. While the website version allows users to access to two online digital projects, the PDF version simply includes the project URLs. The PDF version also differs in a few font and design characteristics especially in the list of courses and advising history.


[back](./)
