---
layout: default
---

## Advising History

Over the course of my two years in the program, I have received invaluable support and guidance from several faculty members, professional mentors and unofficial advisors. I started the program with little idea of my eventual area of specialization, and throughout my first year, at different times, I expressed interest in pursuing each of the five specialization tracks. In our first meeting, my academic advisor, **Dr. Leah Lievrouw**, encouraged me to explore these diverse areas of interest and to develop my specialization by taking a wide range of courses. In late October 2017, we had a lengthy discussion via Skype about my interest in PhD programs in Information Studies. I have since decided not to pursue a doctorate degree at this time, and Dr. Lievrouw’s guidance during my first year was extremely helpful in weighing the pros and cons of this decision. Additionally, in the spring of my first year, as my interest in archives deepened, I consulted with **Dr. Michelle Caswell** regarding my fieldwork for her *Community-based Archives* course, and recieved helpful and practical guidance towards a career in archives.

During Dr. Lievrouw’s sabbatical in the fall quarter of my second year, we exchanged multiple emails regarding my progress towards graduation and the initial formation of a portfolio issue topic. Upon her return from sabbatical in the winter quarter, Dr. Lievrouw and I met twice during office hours to discuss portfolio requirements and to review my draft issue paper. In January, we met via video conference to again discuss portfolio requirements and to check in on my progress. Finally, throughout February Dr. Lievrouw reviewed multiple drafts of my portfolio elements and provided valuable feedback via email, shaping my continued professional development.   

Additionally, since my first week in the “media archives bootcamp” in September 2017, **Snowden Becker** has played an important role in helping shape my experience in the program and my interest in media archives. Most notably, in November 2018, during Dr. Lievrouw’s sabbatical, Prof. Becker met with me to discuss my portfolio issue and helped me conceptualize my specialization and focus my professional interests. Also, throughout the program I have taken multiple courses with **Dr. Shawn VanCour** whose mentorship and advice has helped me understand and make connections within the media archives profession. Finally, during my employment in the Center for Primary Research and Training, my supervisors **Courtney Dean** and **Lori Dedeyan** advised me on a number of issues ranging from online training tools and required archival skillsets to labor issues and institutional politics. 

[back](./)
